PETE LEPAGE: Dark mode
comes to websites.
Progressive Web Apps on
desktop get an install button
in the Omnibox.
You can finally prevent
the mini-infobar
from appearing on
mobile, and plenty more.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 76.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In Chrome 76, we're
making it easier
for users to install Progressive
Web Apps on the desktop
by adding an install
button to the address bar,
sometimes called the Omnibox.
If your site meets the
Progressive Web App
installability criteria, Chrome
will show an install button
in the Omnibox,
indicating to the user
that your PWA can be installed.
If the user clicks
the Install button,
it's essentially the
same as calling prompt
on the
beforeinstallprompt event.
It shows the install dialog,
making it easy for users
to install your PWA.
On mobile, Chrome
shows the mini-infobar
the first time a
user visits your site
if it meets the Progressive Web
App installability criteria.
We heard from you
that you want to be
able to prevent that
mini-infobar from appearing
and provide your own
install promotion instead.
Starting in Chrome 76,
calling preventDefault
on the beforeinstallprompt
event will stop the mini-infobar
from appearing.
Be sure to update
your UI to let users
know that your PWA
can be installed.
There's a great post linked in
the description with patterns
for updating your
UI and promoting
the installation of your PWA.
When a Progressive Web App
is installed on Android,
Chrome automatically requests
and installs a WebAPK.
After it's been installed,
Chrome periodically
checks to see if the web
app manifest has changed.
Maybe you've updated
the icons, colors,
or changed the app name.
And it checks to see if
a new WebAPK is required.
Starting in Chrome
76, Chrome will
check the manifest
more frequently--
checking every day instead
of every three days.
If any of the key
properties have changed,
Chrome will request and
install a new WebAPK,
ensuring the title, icons,
and other properties
are up-to-date.
Check my post linked
in the description
for complete details.
Many operating
systems now support
a dark mode or dark theme.
The prefers-color-scheme
media query
allows you to adjust
the look and feel
of your site to match the
user's preferred mode.
Tom has a great article
on web.dev with everything
you need to know, plus tips
for architecting your style
sheets to support both
a light and a dark mode.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 76
for developers.
Of course, there's plenty more.
Personally, I'm really excited
about promise.allSettled.
It's similar to
promise.all, except it
waits until all of the promises
are settled before returning.
Blobs are easier to read
with three new methods--
text, arrayBuffer, and stream--
and it means we don't
have to create a wrapper
around FileReader anymore.
And we've added
support for images
to the asynchronous
clipboard API,
making it easy to
programmatically copy and paste
images.
All the details,
including docs and specs,
are in the updates post
linked in the description.
Be sure to check out the latest
Chrome DevTools video to learn
what's new in DevTools.
Then click the Subscribe
button, and you'll
get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 77 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.